#### The Federal Student Loan Program is a key funding mechanism that individuals in the United States use to pursue higher education. It has grown quickly in the last decade and now outstanding student loan balances make up the biggest component of the Federal Government’s balance sheet. Using exploratory data analysis and visualization with R and D3.js, we attempt to get a good understanding of this program from various perspectives by answering the following questions: 1) How big is the market and how fast has it grown? How does its size and growth compare to the size and growth of the economy and/or population in large? 2) How widely distributed is the debt? How does the distribution of debt look like across different individuals? 3) Can we identify regions of the country that have high student loan debt concentration? Are there any economic indicators that correlate with high student loan utilization in given geographies? 4) Who are the borrowers? Where are they from? How much debt do they have? What is the debt being used for? 5) Can we identify problematic loans? Where are they concentrated and what can be their impact? 6) How does default rate look across the country and is this variable related to any economic indicators? 7) How has the performance of these loans been? Is this a problem for the Federal Government? ####

#### Our analysis shows that the rise in the absolute amount of Debt and Percentage of Debt, as well as Not-In-Repayment being combined with the demographic shift of debt into older borrowers could become a critical concern for the financial future of the United States and the state of higher education. ####

#### Please see the Exploratory Data Analysis & Visualization of Federal Student Loan Program at https://kundata.github.io/EDAV-Federal-Student-Loan-Program/index.html ####
